- [Instructor] Let's now do a quick demo for the binders.
We are going to pick the date of birth field
on our registration form,
and change its data type from String to date.
Let's come back to the IDE.
That's the user bean, and I'm going to change this data type
from string to date which comes
from the java.util package.
And if I do that, then I'll have to also change it
in the data centers on lines 88 and 92,
so I'm going to do that quickly.
Also, let's go to the register GSP,
and let's make sure that the form:errors tag
is now available on the date of birth feed.
So I'm just going to do this.
And now, let's just run this field and check what happens.
But before that, I have to stop this field,
because I have put the wrong path for the field,
so copy this, and let's make sure that
the correct attribute is put up there.
Okay, let's run the bill now.
And let's go ahead and run our application.
So http, localhost, home.
Say login.
Go to register.
Let's put some junk data.
Select the value for the activity.
Put in some date of birth.
And submit this.
And there you go, you have a problem
on the date of birth field now.
It says that it failed to convert property value
of type java.line.string
to the required type java.util.date.
Now, that's exactly what we were trying to talk about
when @ModelAttribute alone is used for data binding.
So now, in order to solve this problem,
we want to convert the string data type to a date data type.
We are going to use the conceptor finders.
So let's fix this problem.
Let's go back to the IDE.
Let's come in registration controller
and annotate using initbinder.
This will, of course, take a method.
What is that method?
It's public void.
And let's just call that initbinder.
And this will take an instance of webdatabinder,
on which you are going to register the property editors
for this conversion to happen.
So how do we do that?
Let's go inside online 28.
I'm going to say binder.registercustomeditor.
So the host of property editors
that is available in Spring MBC,
if you want to use any of them,
then you call this method of registercustomeditor.
And what will it want?
The first argument is the data type
that you want the string value converted to.
In our case, it is java.util, so that's date.class.
Secondly, it will demand the name of the field
that you want to use this conversion on.
And lastly, it is going to demand the...
Custom date editor object.
So if you see, this custom date editor,
this currency editor, custom Boolean editor,
custom collection editor,
so there's a host of those property editors
that is available for you inside the Spring framework.
That comes from org.springframework
beans.propertyeditors package.
So you can use any one of those
and get your conversions done.
So I'm going to do the custom
date editor constructor invocation,
and that is going to demand a date format.
And that date format will look like
yyyy...
mm...
dd.
And let's say that this date field accepts empty values.
So I'm just going to eliminate line 27 because that's blank.
Push this goal to line 27 and eliminate line 28, too.
So that's all we need.
We have invoked the custom data return,
and we have provided the date format.
And now it should convert that string value
to your date object.
Additionally, let's also come inside
the controller method on line 31, register user,
and just after the first sysout, let us put a sysout,
which will print the date of birth.
So I'm just going to say user.getDateOFBirth.
And let's run this bit,
and let's see if everything works well now.
So let's open the browser window.
Let's go to the homepage, log in, register new user,
let's say I'm going to enter Tom Hardy's data.
So I'm going to say...
Tom Hardy, and...
let's say "play a sport."
And I don't know his date of birth,
but I can enter some kind of date of birth,
so let's say 03/23/1985, maybe, and say submit.
So now the user has been registered successfully.
Let's go to the IDE.
So that was the date that we have now got,
after the conversion.
So if you see, line number 33 sysout
is the one that you're looking at right now,
highlighted on the console.
That's 23 March, 1985.
So now that is the date object that you have
with you for further processing.
So if you look in the database,
let's quickly go to this,
and the data will be stored like that.
Of course, you need to amend the data type of this column
so that you can store a value like that
for your further persistence to the database.
So that's how you use an inbuilt custom editor.
We have used for date, you can use for other data types too.
And also, you can write your own editors.
You have to implement the property editor interface
and provide the necessary logic
and register it like this, and you should be good.
Just another small point here.
On line 27, when we registered the custom editor,
we chose a simple date format like that.
However, the format that was displayed on the HTML
was a little different.
Now, that format may be picked up by your browser,
and that will definitely depend on the region
where you're trying to run this demo.
So just make sure that you understand that point,
that whatever the format is on the HTML,
we want it formatted to this date,
and then you can save it to your database.
We have to be very careful with
the date formats in a web application.
So just noting that for you so that you remember it.